[MUSIC]
>> Alexis Abril: For
previous since previous is really,
really straightforward,
let's do previous together.
Now we had a bunch of different
traversal DOM properties.
nextSibling is one,
previousSibling is another one.
So just like we did for HTML and
val, the easiest way to kinda do
this is just copy what we have here.
And I'm gonna copy it into our previous,
so I'm gonna say previous,
previous and
this is gonna do the same exact logic.
It's just gonna go in the other
direction from wherever we start.
I'll leave that up for a split second,
hope people are typing it out.
>> Alexis Abril: And
just to make sure this is working,
I'm gonna run over to our test page.
And now you can see we have next and
previous, both chainable.
They're both returning jQuery objects, and
they're both traversing
down the DOM accordingly,
so,
>> Alexis Abril: Okay,
we also have parent and children.
Now parent and children are nice,
because we don't have to keep
moving one way or the other.
Children is really nice,
because now we have that additional
DOM property called children,
so let's do parent first.
So for parent, we're going to need to,
let's think about this verbally first.
We need to,
let's say you have $div.parents.
That's gonna find all
the divs on the page, and
return their parent elements in another
jQuery collection respectively.
So first thing off the bat,
we're going to need our accumulator.
Let me scoot this up the screen for
you guys.
And at the end of this function,
we're going to want to return,
>> Alexis Abril: A jQuery
representation of our array.
We know we are gonna need to iterate
through each element in our collection.
So this, function(i,
el).
>> Alexis Abril: And within this, we need
to find the current element's parent,
and then push it onto our accumulator.
Now this one is pretty straightforward,
I'm gonna type out a comment here.
el is our DOM element, and parentNode
is our DOM property that points
to the parent DOM element.
Can anyone in the room or online think
of what we should put within this
each?
>> Alexis Abril: Anybody at all?
>> Speaker 2: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Alexis Abril: No, if we have,
elements the accumulator will just be
an array of DOM elements that we find.
So el is the current DOM element
that we're at in our collection,
maybe it's an li.
The parent node would be a reference
to that li's parent, a ul most likely.
So what we want to do is push
that ul onto our accumulator.
We want to save it, say hey, this
element that we're on, its parent is ul,
then it's going to move on to the next.
Maybe the next element in
our collection is a div.
Your parent is a body, it's the body tag.
We're gonna go through collecting all
of these parents onto our accumulator.
So for this, all we need to do actually
is elements.push(el.parentNode).
>> Alexis Abril: So let me refresh there,
and now we have passing set
of assertions for parents.
Is there a lot of questions?
Hey Justin can you help me
with questions in the chat?
>> Speaker 3: [INAUDIBLE]
>> Alexis Abril: No, no, no, I mean,
can you hop in the chat?
>> Speaker 3: Yeah.
>> Alexis Abril: We apologize,
we wanna get to events, so we're gonna
start tag teaming this a little bit,
blaze through this.
Okay, was there any questions on,
go ahead.
>> Speaker 4: They want you to you go
through next again.
>> Alexis Abril: Go through next again?
>> Speaker 4: Yeah just walk through how
that works.
>> Alexis Abril: Sure, of course.
This is good to understand, because pretty
much most of these, you can see now,
we're getting to this pattern of finding
an accumulator, or creating an array.
We're gonna accumulate objects,
iterate through them,
and based on some conditions
push onto that array,
and then eventually return a jQuery
representation of that array.
So for this, that's the first
thing we're starting out with.
Let's start maybe from the outside in.
So if you talk about the first part, var
elements = array, this is just where we're
gonna store all the elements that we find,
all the elements that we care about.
Then we're gonna go through
each item in our collection and
we're gonna invoke our conditions on it.
In this case for next, for
each item in our collection,
we want to find its next sibling,
whatever the element right next to it is.
So what we're going to do first is say,
current = el.nextSibling.
Now if the next sibling in our
collection is a DOM element,
this while loop won't even execute.
It's going to come here and
say current, well that exists so
that's going to be true.
current.nodeType !== 1, well,
if it is a DOM node, then it will be 1.
So this will fail, it'll skip the while
loop entirely, say if current,
which does exist, elements.push,
our current element.
So, immediately if the next sibling
is a DOM node, it basically skips
from line 159 all the way down to 166, and
just pushes that DOM node onto the array.
If it isn't a DOM node, maybe it's a text
node, it's gonna start this while loop
until it finds a DOM node, or until it
runs out of nodes that are nextSiblings.
So one of those two conditions
are gonna happen in this loop.
It's either gonna eventually come
to the end of its container, or
it's gonna find something
that we care about.
In either event, once it finishes,
if something was found we
push it onto our array.
And at the end of this,
we return an accumulated array of all of
the nextSiblings in our collection.
>> Alexis Abril: This is
the same thing we do for parent child and
previous, this is just the most complex,
this and previous are the most
complex versions of this.
Because we have to keep going to the
nextSibling, and then the nextSibling, and
so on and so forth.
>> Alexis Abril: I hope that answered some
of the questions there, yes go for it.
>> Speaker 5: Super quick,
could I see the previous function?
>> Alexis Abril: Of
course.
>> Speaker 5: And you're just switching
out the next for the previous, right?
>> Alexis Abril: Exactly,
you're gonna still have
the same starting point,
and you're gonna have the same
conditions and same logic.
You just wanna go into
a different direction.
Good question.